{{pp-pc1}}
{{see also|New Year|New Year's Day}}
{{pp-move-indef}}{{calendar|year={{#time:Y|+1 Day<!--Offset one day when this article is linked from the Main Page-->}}}}
{{This date in recent years}}
{{Day}} The preceding day is [[December 31]] of the previous year.
__TOC__

==History==
During the [[Middle Ages]] under the influence of the Christian Church, many countries moved the start of the year to one of several important Christian festivals – December 25 (the [[Nativity of Jesus]]), March 1, March 25 (the [[Annunciation]]), or even [[Easter]]. Eastern European countries (most of them with populations showing allegiance to the [[orthodoxy|Orthodox Church]]) began their numbered year on September 1 from about 988.

In England, January 1 was celebrated as the New Year festival, but from the 12th century to 1752 the year in England began on March 25 ([[Lady Day]]). So, for example, the Parliamentary record notes the execution of [[Charles I of England|Charles I]] as occurring on January 30, 1648, (as the year did not end until March 24), although modern histories adjust the start of the year to January 1 and record the execution as occurring in 1649.

Most western European countries changed the start of the year to January 1 before they adopted the [[Gregorian calendar]]. For example, Scotland changed the start of the Scottish New Year to January 1 in 1600. England, Ireland and the British colonies changed the start of the year to January 1 in 1752. Later that year in September, the Gregorian calendar was introduced throughout Britain and the British colonies. These two reforms were implemented by the [[Calendar (New Style) Act 1750]].

January 1 became the official start of the year as follows:

*[[1362]] [[Grand Duchy of Lithuania]]
*[[1522]] [[Republic of Venice]]
*[[1544]] [[Holy Roman Empire]] ([[Germany]])
*[[1556]] [[Spain]], [[Portugal]]
*[[1559]] [[Prussia]], [[Sweden]]
*[[1564]] [[France]]
*[[1576]] [[Southern Netherlands]]
*[[1579]] [[Lorraine (duchy)|Lorraine]]
*[[1583]] [[Dutch Republic|United Provinces]] of the [[Netherlands]] (northern)
*[[1600]] [[Scotland]]
*[[1700]] [[Russia]]
*[[1721]] [[Tuscany]]
*[[1752]] [[Kingdom of Great Britain|Great Britain]] (excluding Scotland) and its [[British Empire|colonies]]

==Events==
*[[153 BC]] &ndash; [[Roman consul]]s begin their year in office.
*[[45 BC]] &ndash; The [[Julian calendar]] takes effect for the first time.
*[[42 BC]] &ndash; The [[Roman Senate]] posthumously [[Apotheosis|deifies]] [[Julius Caesar]]
*  [[69]] &ndash; The [[Roman legion]]s in [[Germania Superior]] refuse to swear loyalty to [[Galba]]. They rebel and proclaim [[Vitellius]] as emperor.
* [[193]] &ndash; The Senate chooses [[Pertinax]] against his will to succeed [[Commodus]] as [[Roman emperor]].
*[[404]] &ndash; An infuriated Roman [[crowd|mob]] tears [[Saint Telemachus|Telemachus]], a [[Christian]] [[monk]], to pieces for trying to stop a [[gladiator]]s' fight in the public arena held in [[Rome]].
*[[414]] &ndash; [[Galla Placidia]], half-sister of Emperor [[Honorius (emperor)|Honorius]], is married to the [[Visigoths|Visigothic]] king [[Ataulf]] at [[Narbonne]]. The wedding is celebrated with Roman festivities and magnificent gifts from the [[Goths|Gothic]] booty.
*[[417]] &ndash; Emperor Honorius forces Galla Placidia into marriage to [[Constantius III|Constantius]], his famous general (''[[magister militum]]'').
*[[1001]] &ndash; Grand Prince [[Stephen I of Hungary]] is named the first [[King of Hungary]] by [[Pope Sylvester II]].
*[[1068]] &ndash; [[Romanos IV Diogenes]] marries [[Eudokia Makrembolitissa]] and is crowned [[List of Byzantine emperors|Byzantine Emperor]].
*[[1259]] &ndash; [[Michael VIII Palaiologos]] is proclaimed co-emperor of the [[Empire of Nicaea]] with his ward [[John IV Laskaris]].
*[[1438]] &ndash; [[Albert II of Germany|Albert II of Habsburg]] is crowned King of [[Hungary]].
*[[1502]] &ndash; The present-day location of [[Rio de Janeiro]], [[Brazil]] is first explored by the [[Portugal|Portuguese]].
*[[1515]] &ndash; King [[Francis I of France]] succeeds to the [[France|French]] throne.
*[[1527]] &ndash; Croatian nobles elect [[Ferdinand I, Holy Roman Emperor|Ferdinand I]] of [[Austria]] as [[List of rulers of Croatia#King of Croatia|King of Croatia]] in the [[Parliament on Cetin]].
*[[1600]] &ndash; [[Scotland]] begins its numbered year on January 1 instead of March 25.
*[[1651]] &ndash; [[Charles II of England|Charles II]] is crowned [[List of Scottish monarchs|King of Scotland]].
*[[1700]] &ndash; [[Russia]] begins using the [[Anno Domini]] era and no longer uses the [[Anno Mundi]] era of the [[Byzantine Empire]].
*[[1707]] &ndash; [[John V of Portugal|John V]] is crowned King of [[Portugal]].
*[[1739]] &ndash; [[Bouvet Island]] is discovered by French explorer [[Jean-Baptiste Charles Bouvet de Lozier]].
*[[1772]] &ndash; The first [[traveler's cheque]]s, which can be used in 90 European cities, go on sale in [[London|London, England, Great Britain]].
*[[1773]] &ndash; The hymn that became known as "[[Amazing Grace]]", then titled "1 Chronicles 17:16–17" is first used to accompany a sermon led by [[John Newton]] in the town of [[Olney, Buckinghamshire|Olney, England]].
*[[1776]] &ndash; [[American Revolutionary War]]: [[Norfolk, Virginia]] is [[Burning of Norfolk|burned]] by combined [[Royal Navy]] and [[Continental Army]] action.
*[[1781]] &ndash; American Revolutionary War: 1,500 soldiers of the [[6th Pennsylvania Regiment]] under General [[Anthony Wayne]]'s command rebel against the Continental Army's winter camp in [[Morristown, New Jersey]] in the [[Pennsylvania Line Mutiny]] of 1781.
*[[1788]] &ndash; First edition of ''[[The Times]]'' of London, previously ''The Daily Universal Register'', is published.
*[[1800]] &ndash; The [[Dutch East India Company]] is dissolved.
*[[1801]] &ndash; The legislative union of [[Kingdom of Great Britain]] and [[Kingdom of Ireland]] is completed to form the [[United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland]].
*1801 &ndash; The dwarf planet [[Ceres (dwarf planet)|Ceres]] is discovered by [[Giuseppe Piazzi]].
*[[1803]] &ndash; Emperor [[Gia Long]] orders all bronze wares of the [[Tây Sơn Dynasty]] to be collected and melted into nine cannons for the Royal Citadel in [[Huế]], [[Vietnam]].
*[[1804]] &ndash; French rule ends in [[Haiti]]. Haiti becomes the first black republic and second independent country in [[North America]] after the [[United States]]
*[[1806]] &ndash; The [[French Republican Calendar]] is abolished.
*[[1808]] &ndash; The importation of [[slavery|slaves]] into the United States is banned.
*[[1810]] &ndash; Major-General [[Lachlan Macquarie]] [[Order of the Bath|CB]] officially becomes [[Governor of New South Wales]]
*[[1812]] &ndash; The [[Bishop of Durham]], [[Shute Barrington]], orders troops from Durham Castle to break up a miners strike in Chester-le-Street, Co. Durham
*[[1822]] &ndash; The [[Greek Constitution of 1822]] is adopted by the [[First National Assembly at Epidaurus]].
*[[1833]] &ndash; The [[United Kingdom]] claims sovereignty over the [[Falkland Islands]].
*[[1845]] &ndash; The [[Cobble Hill Tunnel]] in [[Brooklyn]], [[New York City|New York, New York]] is completed.
*[[1847]] &ndash; The world's first [[UPMC Mercy|"Mercy" Hospital]] is founded in [[Pittsburgh|Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania]] by the [[Sisters of Mercy]], the name will go on to grace over 30 major hospitals throughout the world.
*[[1860]] &ndash; [[Postage stamps and postal history of Poland#First Polish stamp|First Polish stamp]] is issued.
*[[1861]] &ndash; [[Porfirio Díaz]] conquers [[Mexico City]], [[Mexico]].
*[[1863]] &ndash; [[American Civil War]]: The [[Emancipation Proclamation]] takes effect in [[Confederate States of America|Confederate]] territory.
*[[1863]] &ndash; The first claim under the [[Homestead Act]] is made by [[Daniel Freeman]] for a farm in [[Nebraska]].
*[[1870]] &ndash; [[Adolf Loos]], architect, co-founder of [[modern architecture]], baptized in [[Church of St. Thomas (Brno)|St. Thomas church, Brno]], [[Moravia]]
*[[1873]] &ndash; [[Japan]] begins using the [[Gregorian calendar]].
*[[1877]] &ndash; [[Queen Victoria]] of the United Kingdom is proclaimed [[Emperor of India|Empress of India]].
*[[1880]] &ndash; [[Ferdinand de Lesseps]] begins French construction of the [[Panama Canal]].
*[[1885]] &ndash; Twenty-five nations adopt [[Sandford Fleming]]'s proposal for [[standard time]] (and also, [[time zone]]s)
*[[1890]] &ndash; [[Eritrea]] is consolidated into a [[colony]] by the [[Italy|Italian]] government.
*1890 &ndash; The [[Rose Parade]] in [[Pasadena, California]], is first held.
*[[1892]] &ndash; [[Ellis Island]] opens to begin processing immigrants into the United States.
*[[1894]] &ndash; The [[Manchester Ship Canal]], [[England]], is officially opened to traffic.
*[[1898]] &ndash; New York, New York annexes land from surrounding counties, creating the [[City of Greater New York]]. The four initial boroughs, [[Manhattan]], [[Brooklyn]], [[Queens]], and [[The Bronx]], are joined on January 25 by [[Staten Island]] to create the modern city of five boroughs.
*[[1899]] &ndash; [[Spain|Spanish]] rule ends in [[Cuba]].
*[[1901]] &ndash; [[Nigeria]] becomes a British protectorate.
*1901 &ndash; The British colonies of [[New South Wales]], [[Queensland]], [[Victoria (Australia)|Victoria]], [[South Australia]], [[Tasmania]] and [[Western Australia]] [[Federation of Australia|federate]] as the [[Australia|Commonwealth of Australia]]; [[Edmund Barton]] is appointed the first [[Prime Minister of Australia|Prime Minister]].
*[[1902]] &ndash; The first American [[college football]] [[bowl game]], the [[Rose Bowl Game|Rose Bowl]] between Michigan and Stanford, is held in Pasadena, California.
*[[1906]] &ndash; [[Presidencies and provinces of British India|British India]] officially adopts the [[Indian Standard Time]].
*[[1908]] &ndash; For the first time, a [[Times Square Ball|ball]] is dropped in New York, New York's [[Times Square]] to signify the start of the [[New Year]] at midnight.
*[[1909]] &ndash; Drilling begins on the [[Lakeview Gusher]].
*[[1910]] &ndash; Captain [[David Beatty, 1st Earl Beatty|David Beatty]] is promoted to [[Rear admiral]], and becomes the youngest admiral in the Royal Navy (except for [[British Royal Family|Royal family]] members), since [[Horatio Nelson, 1st Viscount Nelson|Horatio Nelson]].
*[[1911]] &ndash; [[Northern Territory]] is separated from [[South Australia]] and transferred to Commonwealth control.
*[[1912]] &ndash; The [[Republic of China (1912–1949)|Republic of China]] is established.
*[[1913]] &ndash; The [[British Board of Film Classification|British Board of Censors]] is established.
*[[1916]] &ndash; [[Germany|German]] troops abandon [[Yaoundé]] and their [[Cameroon|Kamerun]] colony to British forces and begin the long march to [[Spanish Guinea]].
*[[1920]] &ndash; The [[Belorussian Communist Organisation]] is founded as a separate party.
*[[1923]] &ndash; Britain's Railways are grouped into the [[List of railway companies involved in the 1923 grouping#The Big Four|Big Four]]: [[London and North Eastern Railway|LNER]], [[Great Western Railway|GWR]], [[Southern Railway (UK)|SR]], and [[London, Midland and Scottish Railway|LMS]].
*[[1927]] &ndash; The [[Cristero War]] begins in Mexico.
*[[1927]] &ndash; [[Turkey]] adopts the Gregorian calendar: December 18, 1926 (Julian), is immediately followed by January 1, 1927 (Gregorian).
*[[1928]] &ndash; [[Boris Bazhanov]] defects through [[Iran]]. He is the only assistant of [[Joseph Stalin]]'s secretariat to have [[Eastern Bloc emigration and defection|defected from the Eastern Bloc]].
*[[1929]] &ndash; The former municipalities of Point Grey, British Columbia and South Vancouver, British Columbia are [[Merger (politics)|amalgamated]] into [[Vancouver]].
*[[1932]] &ndash; The United States Post Office Department issues [[1932 Washington Bicentennial|a set of 12 stamps]] commemorating the 200th anniversary of George Washington's birth.
*[[1934]] &ndash; [[Alcatraz Island]] becomes a United States federal prison.
*  1934   &ndash; [[Nazi Germany]] passes the "[[Nazi eugenics|Law for the Prevention of Genetically Diseased Offspring]]".
*[[1937]] &ndash; Safety glass in vehicle [[windshield|windscreens]] becomes mandatory in the United Kingdom.
*  1939   &ndash; [[Sydney|Sydney, Australia]], swelters in 45 ˚C (113 ˚F) heat, a record for the city.
*[[1942]] &ndash; The [[Declaration by United Nations]] is signed by twenty-six nations.
*[[1945]] &ndash; [[World War II]]: In retaliation for the [[Malmedy massacre]], U.S. troops massacre 30 SS prisoners at [[Chenogne massacre|Chenogne]].
*  1945   &ndash; World War II: The German ''[[Luftwaffe]]'' launches ''[[Operation Bodenplatte]]'', a massive, but failed attempt to knock out [[Allies of World War II|Allied]] air power in northern Europe in a single blow.
*[[1947]] &ndash; The American and British occupation zones in [[Germany]], after World War II, merge to form the [[Bizone]], that later became [[West Germany]].
*  1947   &ndash; The [[Canadian Citizenship Act 1946]] comes into effect, converting [[British subject]]s into Canadian citizens. Prime Minister [[William Lyon Mackenzie King]] becomes the first Canadian citizen.
*[[1948]] &ndash; The British railway network is [[Nationalization|nationalized]] to form [[British Rail]]ways.
*  1948   &ndash; The [[Constitution of Italy]] comes into force.
*[[1949]] &ndash; [[United Nations]] cease-fire takes effect in [[Kashmir]] from one minute before midnight. War between [[India]] and [[Pakistan]] stops accordingly.
*[[1950]] &ndash; Standard practice uses this day as the origin of the age scale [[Before Present]] 
*[[1954]] &ndash; [[NBC]] makes the first coast-to-coast [[NTSC]] [[Color television|color broadcast]] when it telecast the Tournament of Roses Parade, with public demonstrations given across the United States on prototype color receivers.
*[[1956]] &ndash; [[Sudan]] achieves independence from [[Egypt]] and the United Kingdom.
*  1956   &ndash; A new year event causes panic and stampedes at Yahiko [[Shrine]], [[Yahiko, Niigata]], Japan, killing at least 124 people.
*[[1957]] &ndash; [[George Town, Penang]] becomes a city by a royal charter granted by [[Elizabeth II]].
*  1957   &ndash; An [[Irish Republican Army (1922–1969)|Irish Republican Army]] (IRA) unit attacks [[Brookeborough]] [[Royal Ulster Constabulary|RUC]] barracks during [[Border Campaign (Irish Republican Army)|Operation Harvest]]; two IRA volunteers killed.
*[[1958]] &ndash; The [[European Economic Community]] is established.
*[[1959]] &ndash; [[Fulgencio Batista]], dictator of Cuba, is overthrown by [[Fidel Castro]]'s forces during the [[Cuban Revolution]].
*[[1960]] &ndash; [[Cameroon]] achieves independence from France and the United Kingdom.
*[[1962]] &ndash; [[Samoa|Western Samoa]] achieves independence from [[New Zealand]]; its name is changed to the Independent State of Western Samoa.
*  1962   &ndash; [[United States Navy SEALs]] established.
*[[1964]] &ndash; The [[Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland]] is divided into the independent republics of [[Zambia]] and [[Malawi]], and the British-controlled [[Rhodesia]].
*[[1965]] &ndash; The [[People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan]] is founded in [[Kabul]], [[Afghanistan]].
*[[1966]] &ndash; A twelve-day [[1966 New York City transit strike|New York City transit strike]] begins.
*  1966   &ndash; After a [[coup d'état|coup]], Colonel [[Jean-Bédel Bokassa]] assumes power as president of the [[Central African Republic]].
*[[1970]] &ndash; [[Unix time]] begins at 00:00:00 UTC/GMT.
*[[1971]] &ndash; [[Cigarette]] [[advertising|advertisements]] are banned on American [[television]].
*  1971   &ndash; [[Hellenic Railways Organisation]], the Greek national railway company, is founded.
*[[1973]] &ndash; [[Denmark]], the [[United Kingdom]], and [[Republic of Ireland|Ireland]] are admitted into the European Economic Community.
*[[1977]] &ndash; [[Charter 77]] published its first document.
*[[1978]] &ndash; [[Air India Flight 855]] [[Boeing 747]] crashes into the sea, due to instrument failure and pilot disorientation, off the coast of [[Mumbai|Bombay, India]], killing 213.
*  1978   &ndash; The Constitution of the [[Northern Mariana Islands]] becomes effective.
*[[1979]] &ndash; Formal [[diplomacy|diplomatic relations]] are established between [[China]] and the United States.
*[[1980]] &ndash; [[Victoria, Crown Princess of Sweden|Victoria]] is crowned princess of [[Sweden]].
*[[1981]] &ndash; [[Greece]] is admitted into the European Community.
*  1981   &ndash; [[Palau]] achieves self-government though it is not independent from the United States.
*[[1982]] &ndash; [[Peru]]vian [[Javier Pérez de Cuéllar]] becomes the first [[Latin America]]n to hold the title of [[Secretary-General of the United Nations]].
*  1982   &ndash; [[ITV (TV network)|ITV]] franchise [[Associated Television|ATV]] gets replaced by [[ITV Central|Central]]
*[[1983]] &ndash; The [[ARPANET]] officially changes to using the [[Internet Protocol]], creating the [[Internet]].
*[[1984]] &ndash; The original [[AT&T Corporation|American Telephone & Telegraph Company]] is divested of its 22 Bell System companies as a result of the settlement of the 1974 [[United States Department of Justice]] [[Competition law|antitrust]] [[Bell System divestiture|suit against AT&T]].
*  1984   &ndash; [[Brunei]] becomes independent of the United Kingdom.
*[[1985]] &ndash; The Internet's [[Domain Name System]] is created.
*  1985   &ndash; The first British mobile phone call is made by [[Ernie Wise]] to [[Vodafone]].
*[[1986]] &ndash; [[Aruba]] becomes independent of [[Curaçao]], though it remains in free association with the [[Netherlands]].
*  1986   &ndash; Spain and [[Portugal]] are admitted into the European Community.
*[[1987]] &ndash; A [[value added tax]] is introduced in [[Greece]] for the first time.
*[[1988]] &ndash; The [[Evangelical Lutheran Church in America]] comes into existence, creating the largest [[Lutheranism|Lutheran]] [[religious denomination|denomination]] in the United States.
*[[1989]] &ndash; The [[Montreal Protocol]] Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer comes into force.
*[[1990]] &ndash; [[David Dinkins]] is sworn in as New York City's first black mayor.
*[[1992]] &ndash; [[Russia]] is officially formed.
*[[1993]] &ndash; [[Dissolution of Czechoslovakia]]: [[Czechoslovakia]] is divided into [[Slovakia]] and the [[Czech Republic]].
*  1993   &ndash; A single market within the European Community is introduced.
*[[1994]] &ndash; The [[Zapatista Army of National Liberation]] initiates twelve days of armed conflict in the [[Mexico|Mexican]] [[Chiapas|State of Chiapas]].
*  1994   &ndash; The [[North American Free Trade Agreement]] comes into effect.
*[[1995]] &ndash; The [[World Trade Organization]] goes into effect.
*  1995   &ndash; [[Sweden]], [[Austria]], and [[Finland]] are admitted into the [[European Union]].
*  1995   &ndash; The ''Conference for Security and Co-operation in Europe'' becomes the [[Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe]].
*  1995   &ndash; The [[Draupner wave]] in the [[North Sea]] in [[Norway]] is detected, confirming the existence of [[Rogue wave|freak waves]].
*[[1996]] &ndash; Curaçao gains limited self-government, though it remains within free association with the Netherlands.
*[[1997]] &ndash; [[Democratic Republic of the Congo|Zaire]] officially joins the World Trade Organization.
*  1997   &ndash; [[Ghana]]ian [[diplomacy|diplomat]] [[Kofi Annan]] is appointed Secretary-General of the United Nations.
*[[1998]] &ndash; Russia begins to circulate new [[Russian ruble|rubles]] to stem [[inflation]] and promote confidence.
*  1998   &ndash; The [[European Central Bank]] is established.
*[[1999]] &ndash; The [[Euro]] currency is introduced in 11 countries - members of the European Union (with the exception of the United Kingdom, Denmark, Greece and Sweden).
*[[2002]] &ndash; Euro banknotes and coins become legal tender in twelve of the European Union's [[Member state of the European Union|member states]].
*  2002   &ndash; [[Taiwan]] officially joins the [[World Trade Organization]], as [[Chinese Taipei]].
*  2002   &ndash; The [[Treaty on Open Skies|Open Skies]] mutual [[surveillance]] treaty, initially signed in [[1992]], officially comes into force.
*[[2004]] &ndash; In a [[Motion of no confidence|vote of confidence]], General [[Pervez Musharraf]] wins 658 out of 1,170 votes in the [[Electoral College (Pakistan)|Electoral College of Pakistan]], and according to Article 41(8) of the [[Constitution of Pakistan]], is "deemed to be elected" to the office of [[President of Pakistan|President]] until October 2007.
*[[2007]] &ndash; [[Bulgaria]] and [[Romania]] officially join the European Union. [[Slovenia]] joins [[Eurozone]].
*  2007   &ndash; [[Adam Air Flight 574]] disappears over [[Indonesia]] with 102 people on board.
*[[2008]] &ndash; [[Cyprus]] and [[Malta]] join the Eurozone.
*[[2009]] &ndash; Sixty-six people die in a [[Santika Club fire|nightclub fire]] in [[Bangkok|Bangkok, Thailand]].
*  2009   &ndash; [[Slovakia]] joins the Eurozone.
*[[2010]] &ndash; A suicide car bomber [[2010 Lakki Marwat suicide bombing|detonates at a volleyball tournament]] in Lakki Marwat, Pakistan, killing 105 and injuring 100 more.
*[[2011]] &ndash; A bomb [[2011 Alexandria bombing|explodes]] as [[Copts|Coptic Christians]] in [[Alexandria]], [[Egypt]], leave a new year service, killing 23 people.
*  2011   &ndash; The [[Administrative divisions of Greece|Kallikratis plan]] becomes the new administrative system of [[Greece]].
*[[2012]] &ndash; A [[Moldova]]n civilian is [[2012 Moldova security zone incident|fatally wounded]] by a [[Russia]]n peacekeeper in the [[Transnistria]]n security zone, leading to demonstrations against Russia.
*[[2013]] &ndash; At least 60 people are killed and 200 injured in a [[2013 Houphouët-Boigny stampede|stampede]] after celebrations at [[Stade Félix Houphouët-Boigny|Félix Houphouët-Boigny Stadium]] in [[Abidjan]], [[Ivory Coast]].
*[[2014]] &ndash; [[Latvia]] joins the Eurozone.
<!-- Wikipedians: please be careful with January 1 (1 January) has been known to be used as a default birthdate in some sources, when an individual's actual date of birth is unknown. Thanks. -->

==Births==
* [[871]] &ndash; [[Zwentibold]], Frankish son of [[Arnulf of Carinthia]] (d. 900)
*[[1431]] &ndash; [[Pope Alexander VI]] (d. 1503)
*[[1449]] &ndash; [[Lorenzo de' Medici]], Italian politician (d. 1492)
*[[1467]] &ndash; [[Sigismund I the Old]], Polish king (d. 1548)
*[[1484]] &ndash; [[Huldrych Zwingli]], Swiss pastor and theologian (d. 1531)
*[[1511]] &ndash; [[Henry, Duke of Cornwall]] (d. 1511)
*[[1516]] &ndash; [[Margaret Leijonhufvud]], Swedish wife of [[Gustav I of Sweden]] (d. 1551)
*[[1557]] &ndash; [[Stephen Bocskay]], Romanian prince (d. 1606)
*[[1600]] &ndash; [[Friedrich Spanheim]], Dutch theologian (d. 1649)
*[[1614]] &ndash; [[John Wilkins]], English bishop (d. 1672)
*[[1618]] &ndash; [[Bartolomé Esteban Murillo]], Spanish painter (d. 1682)
*[[1628]] &ndash; [[Christoph Bernhard]], German composer (d. 1692)
*[[1638]] &ndash; [[Emperor Go-Sai]] of Japan (d. 1685)
*[[1655]] &ndash; [[Christian Thomasius]], German jurist and philosopher (d. 1728)
*[[1684]] &ndash; [[Arnold Drakenborch]], Dutch scholar (d. 1748)
*[[1704]] &ndash; [[Soame Jenyns]], English author (d. 1787)
*[[1709]] &ndash; [[Johann Heinrich Hartmann Bätz]], German-Dutch organ builder (d. 1770)
*[[1711]] &ndash; [[Baron Franz von der Trenck]], Austrian soldier (d. 1749)
*[[1714]] &ndash; [[Kristijonas Donelaitis]], Lithuanian poet (d. 1780)
*  1714   &ndash; [[Giovanni Battista Mancini]], Italian soprano and author (d. 1800)
*[[1735]] &ndash; [[Paul Revere]], American military officer (d. 1818)
*[[1745]] &ndash; [[Anthony Wayne]], American general and politician (d. 1796)
*[[1750]] &ndash; [[Frederick Muhlenberg]], American minister and politician (d. 1801)
*[[1752]] &ndash; [[Betsy Ross]], American seamstress, designed the [[Flag of the United States]] (d. 1836)
*[[1768]] &ndash; [[Maria Edgeworth]], English-Irish author (d. 1849)
*[[1774]] &ndash; [[André Marie Constant Duméril]], French zoologist (d. 1860)
*[[1779]] &ndash; [[William Clowes (printer)|William Clowes]], English printer (d. 1847)
*[[1803]] &ndash; [[Guglielmo Libri Carucci dalla Sommaja]], Italian mathematician (d. 1869)
*[[1806]] &ndash; [[Lionel Kieseritzky]], Baltic German/French chess player (d. 1853)
*[[1814]] &ndash; [[Hong Xiuquan]], Chinese rebel leader (d. 1864)
*[[1819]] &ndash; [[Arthur Hugh Clough]], English poet (d. 1861)
*[[1823]] &ndash; [[Sándor Petőfi]], Hungarian poet and activist (d. 1849)
*[[1833]] &ndash; [[Robert Lawson (architect)|Robert Lawson]], New Zealand architect, designed the [[Otago Boys' High School]] and [[Knox Church, Dunedin|Knox Church]] (d. 1902)
*[[1834]] &ndash; [[Ludovic Halévy]], French playwright (d. 1908)
*[[1839]] &ndash; [[Ouida]], English author (d. 1908)
*[[1848]] &ndash; [[John W. Goff]], Irish lawyer and politician (d. 1924)
*[[1852]] &ndash; [[Eugène-Anatole Demarçay]], French chemist (d. 1904)
*[[1854]] &ndash; [[James George Frazer]], Scottish anthropologist (d. 1941)
*[[1859]] &ndash; [[Thibaw Min]], Burmese king (d. 1916)
*[[1860]] &ndash; [[John Cassidy (artist)|John Cassidy]], Irish sculptor and painter (d. 1939)
*  1860   &ndash; [[Dan Katchongva]], American tribal leader and activist (d. 1972)
*  1860   &ndash; [[Michele Lega]], Italian cardinal (d. 1935)
*  1860   &ndash; [[Dirk van Erp]], Dutch-American coppersmith and metalsmith (d. 1933)
*  1860   &ndash; [[Jan Vilímek]], Czech illustrator and painter (d. 1938)
*[[1863]] &ndash; [[Pierre de Coubertin]], French historian and educator, founded the [[International Olympic Committee]] (d. 1937)
*[[1864]] &ndash; [[Qi Baishi]], Chinese painter (d. 1957)
*  1864   &ndash; [[Alfred Stieglitz]], American photographer (d. 1946)
*[[1867]] &ndash; [[Lew Fields]], American actor, producer, and manager (d. 1941)
*[[1868]] &ndash; [[Snitz Edwards]], American actor (d. 1937)
*[[1871]] &ndash; [[Montagu Toller]], English cricketer (d. 1948)
*[[1873]] &ndash; [[Mariano Azuela]], Mexican author (d. 1952)
*[[1874]] &ndash; [[Frank Knox]], American publisher and politician, 46th [[United States Secretary of the Navy]] (d. 1944)
*  1874   &ndash; [[Gustave Whitehead]], German-American engineer (d. 1927)
*[[1876]] &ndash; [[Harriet Brooks]], Canadian physicist (d. 1933)
*[[1877]] &ndash; [[Alexander von Staël-Holstein]], German orientalist (d. 1937)
*[[1878]] &ndash; [[Agner Krarup Erlang]], Danish mathematician, statistician, and engineer (d. 1929)
*[[1879]] &ndash; [[E. M. Forster]], English author (d. 1970)
*  1879   &ndash; [[William Fox (producer)|William Fox]], Hungarian-American film producer, founded the [[Fox Film Corporation]] and [[Fox Theatres]] (d. 1952)
*[[1880]] &ndash; [[Vajiravudh]], Thai king (d. 1925)
*[[1883]] &ndash; [[William J. Donovan]], American intelligence chief (d. 1959)
*[[1885]] &ndash; [[Béla Balogh]], Hungarian director (d. 1945)
*[[1887]] &ndash; [[Wilhelm Canaris]], German admiral and intelligence chief (d. 1945)
*[[1888]] &ndash; [[John Garand]], Canadian-American engineer and designer, designed the [[M1 Garand|M1 Garand rifle]] (d. 1974)
*  1888   &ndash; [[Georgios Stanotas]], Greek general (d. 1965)
*[[1889]] &ndash; [[Charles Bickford]], American actor (d. 1967)
*[[1890]] &ndash; [[Anton Melik]], Slovenian geographer (d. 1966)
*[[1891]] &ndash; [[Sampurnanand]], Indian politician (d. 1969)
*[[1892]] &ndash; [[Mahadev Desai]], Indian activist (d. 1942)
*  1892   &ndash; [[Artur Rodziński]], Polish-American conductor (d. 1958)
*  1892   &ndash; [[Manuel Roxas]], Filipino politician, 5th [[President of the Philippines]] (d. 1948)
*[[1893]] &ndash; [[Mordehai Frizis]], Greek army officer (d. 1940)
*[[1894]] &ndash; [[Satyendra Nath Bose]], Indian mathematician (d. 1974)
*  1894   &ndash; [[Shitsu Nakano]], Japanese super-centenarian (d. 2007)
*[[1895]] &ndash; [[J. Edgar Hoover]], American 1st [[Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation]] (d. 1972)
*[[1900]] &ndash; [[Xavier Cugat]], Spanish-American singer-songwriter (d. 1990)
*  1900   &ndash; [[Chiune Sugihara]], Japanese diplomat (d. 1986)
*[[1902]] &ndash; [[Buster Nupen]], South African cricketer (d. 1977)
*[[1904]] &ndash; [[Vasilis Avlonitis]], Greek actor (d. 1970)
*  1904   &ndash; [[Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry]], Pakistani politician, 5th [[President of Pakistan]] (d. 1982)
*[[1905]] &ndash; [[Stanisław Mazur]], Polish mathematician (d. 1981)
*[[1906]] &ndash; [[Giovanni D'Anzi]], Italian songwriter (d. 1974)
*[[1908]] &ndash; [[Bill Tapia]], American singer and guitarist (d. 2011)
*[[1909]] &ndash; [[Dana Andrews]], American actor (d. 1992)
*[[1909]] &ndash; [[Dattaram Hindlekar]], Indian cricketer (d. 1949)
*[[1909]]   &ndash; [[Stepan Bandera]], Ukrainian politician (d. 1959)
*[[1911]] &ndash; [[Basil Dearden]], English director (d. 1971)
*  1911   &ndash; [[Hank Greenberg]], American baseball player (d. 1986)
*  1911   &ndash; [[Roman Totenberg]], Polish-American violinist (d. 2012)
*[[1911]] &ndash; [[Audrey Wurdemann]], American poet (d. 1960)
*[[1912]] &ndash; [[Boris Vladimirovich Gnedenko]], Russian mathematician (d. 1995)
*  1912   &ndash; [[Kim Philby]], English spy (d. 1988)
*  1912   &ndash; [[Nikiforos Vrettakos]], Greek poet (d. 1991)
*[[1914]] &ndash; [[Noor Inayat Khan]], English spy (d. 1944)
*[[1917]] &ndash; [[Jule Gregory Charney]], American meteorologist (d. 1981)
*  1917   &ndash; [[Albert Mol]], Dutch actor (d. 2004)
*[[1918]] &ndash; [[Patrick Anthony Porteous]], Scottish soldier, [[Victoria Cross]] recipient (d. 2000)
*  1918   &ndash; [[Ed Price (American politician)|Edgar Price]], American pilot and politician (d. 2012)
*[[1919]] &ndash; [[Rocky Graziano]], American boxer (d. 1990)
*  1919   &ndash; [[Carole Landis]], American actress (d. 1948)
*  1919   &ndash; [[J. D. Salinger]], American author (d. 2010)
*  1919   &ndash; [[Yoshio Tabata]], Japanese singer-songwriter and guitarist (d. 2013)
*[[1920]] &ndash; [[Osvaldo Cavandoli]], Italian cartoonist (d. 2007)
*  1920   &ndash; [[Willie Fennell]], Australian comedian and actor (d. 1992)
*  1920   &ndash; [[Virgilio Savona]], Italian singer-songwriter ([[Quartetto Cetra]]) (d. 2009)
*  1920   &ndash; [[Mahmoud Zoufonoun]], Iranian-American violinist (d. 2013)
*[[1921]] &ndash; [[Ismail al-Faruqi]], Palestinian-American philosopher (d. 1986)
*  1921   &ndash; [[César Baldaccini]], French sculptor (d. 1998)
*  1921   &ndash; [[Regina Bianchi]], Italian actress (d. 2013)
*  1921   &ndash; [[Alain Mimoun]], French runner (d. 2013)
*  1921   &ndash; [[John Strawson (British Army officer)|John Strawson]], English general (d. 2014)
*[[1922]] &ndash; [[Ernest Hollings]], American politician, 106th [[Governor of South Carolina]]
*  1922   &ndash; [[Roz Howard]], American race car driver (d. 2013)
*  1922   &ndash; [[Jerry Robinson]], American illustrator (d. 2011)
*[[1923]] &ndash; [[Valentina Cortese]], Italian actress
*  1923   &ndash; [[Daniel Gorenstein]], American mathematician (d. 1992)
*  1923   &ndash; [[Milt Jackson]], American vibraphonist and composer ([[Modern Jazz Quartet]]) (d. 1999)
*[[1924]] &ndash; [[Charlie Munger]], American businessman and philanthropist
*  1924   &ndash; [[Francisco Macías Nguema]], Equatorial Guinean politician, 1st [[List of heads of state of Equatorial Guinea|President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea]] (d. 1979)
*[[1925]] &ndash; [[Matthew Beard (American actor)|Matthew Beard]], American actor (d. 1981)
*  1925   &ndash; [[Paul Bomani]], Tanzanian politician and diplomat (d. 2005)
*  1925   &ndash; [[Raymond Pellegrin]], French actor (d. 2007)
*[[1926]] &ndash; [[Kazys Petkevičius]], Lithuanian basketball player (d. 2008)
*  1926   &ndash; [[Richard Verreau]], Canadian tenor (d. 2005)
*[[1927]] &ndash; [[Maurice Béjart]], French-Swiss dancer, choreographer, and director (d. 2007)
*  1927   &ndash; [[Calum MacKay]], Canadian ice hockey player (d. 2001)
*  1927   &ndash; [[Yvonne Sanson]], Greek actress (d. 2003)
*  1927   &ndash; [[Vernon L. Smith]], American economist, [[Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences|Nobel Prize]] laureate
*  1927   &ndash; [[Doak Walker]], American football player (d. 1998)
*[[1928]] &ndash; [[Ernest Tidyman]], American author and screenwriter (d. 1984)
*  1928   &ndash; [[Gerhard Weinberg]], German-American historian
*[[1929]] &ndash; [[Raymond Chow]], Hong Kong film producer, co-founded [[Orange Sky Golden Harvest]]
*  1929   &ndash; [[Larry L. King]], American journalist, author, and playwright (d. 2012)
*  1929   &ndash; [[Joseph Lombardo]], American mob boss
*  1929   &ndash; [[Haruo Nakajima]], Japanese actor
*[[1930]] &ndash; [[Jean-Pierre Duprey]], French poet and sculptor (d. 1959)
*  1930   &ndash; [[Ty Hardin]], American actor
*  1930   &ndash; [[Gaafar Nimeiry]], Sudanese politician, 4th [[President of the Sudan]] (d. 2009)
*  1930   &ndash; [[Frederick Wiseman]], American director and producer
*[[1931]] &ndash; [[Jimmy Smyth (hurler)|Jimmy Smyth]], Irish hurler (d. 2013)
*[[1932]] &ndash; [[Leman Çıdamlı]], Turkish actress (d. 2012)
*  1932   &ndash; [[Jackie Parker]], American football player (d. 2006)
*  1932   &ndash; [[Giuseppe Patanè]], Italian conductor (d. 1989)
*[[1933]] &ndash; [[James Hormel]], American philanthropist and diplomat
*  1933   &ndash; [[Joseph Koo]], Chinese composer
*  1933   &ndash; [[Frederick Lowy]], Canadian psychiatrist and academic
*  1933   &ndash; [[Joe Orton]], English author and playwright (d. 1967)
*  1933   &ndash; [[Norman Yemm]], Australian actor
*[[1934]] &ndash; [[Lakhdar Brahimi]], Algerian diplomat
*[[1935]] &ndash; [[B. Kliban]], American cartoonist (d. 1990)
*[[1936]] &ndash; [[Yōko Mitsui]], Japanese poet (d. 2014)
*  1936   &ndash; [[Don Nehlen]], American football player and coach
*  1936   &ndash; [[James Sinegal]], American businessman, co-founded [[Costco]]
*[[1937]] &ndash; [[John Fuller (poet)|John Fuller]], English poet
*  1937   &ndash; [[Petros Markaris]], Greek author
*  1937   &ndash; [[Matt Robinson (actor)|Matt Robinson]], American actor (d. 2002)
*  1937   &ndash; [[Adam Wiśniewski-Snerg]], Polish author (d. 1995)
*[[1938]] &ndash; [[Clay Cole]], American television host and producer (d. 2010)
*  1938   &ndash; [[Robert Jankel]], English businessman, founded [[Panther Westwinds]] (d. 2005)
*  1938   &ndash; [[Frank Langella]], American actor
*[[1939]] &ndash; [[Michèle Mercier]], French actress
*  1939   &ndash; [[Steve Kahan]], American actor
*[[1941]] &ndash; [[Asrani]], Indian actor and producer
*  1941   &ndash; [[Martin Evans]], English scientist
*  1941   &ndash; [[Younoussi Touré]], Malian politician, [[Prime Minister of Mali]]
*[[1942]] &ndash; [[Dennis Archer]], American lawyer and politician, 67th [[Mayor of Detroit]]
*  1942   &ndash; [[Anthony Hamilton-Smith, 3rd Baron Colwyn]], English dentist
*  1942   &ndash; [[Al Hunt]], American journalist
*  1942   &ndash; [[Country Joe McDonald]], American singer-songwriter and guitarist ([[Country Joe and the Fish]])
*  1942   &ndash; [[Alassane Ouattara]], Ivorian politician, [[List of heads of state of Ivory Coast|President of the Ivory Coast]]
*  1942   &ndash; [[Gennadi Sarafanov]], Russian astronaut (d. 2005)
*  1942   &ndash; [[Judy Stone]], Australian singer
*[[1943]] &ndash; [[Bud Hollowell]], American baseball player and manager (d. 2014)
*  1943   &ndash; [[Tony Knowles (politician)|Tony Knowles]], American politician, 7th [[Governor of Alaska]]
*  1943   &ndash; [[Raghunath Anant Mashelkar]], Indian scientist
*  1943   &ndash; [[Don Novello]], American actor
*  1943   &ndash; [[Ronald Perelman]], American businessman, founded [[MacAndrews & Forbes]]
*  1943   &ndash; [[Vladimir Šeks]], Croatian politician
*[[1944]] &ndash; [[Omar al-Bashir]], Sudanese politician, 7th [[List of heads of state of Sudan|President of Sudan]]
*  1944   &ndash; [[Jimmy Hart]], American wrestling manager and singer ([[The Gentrys]])
*  1944   &ndash; [[Jeremy Hindley]], English horse trainer (d. 2013)
*  1944   &ndash; [[Zafarullah Khan Jamali]], Pakistani politician, 13th [[Prime Minister of Pakistan]]
*  1944   &ndash; [[Teresa Torańska]], Polish journalist (d. 2013)
*  1944   &ndash; [[Mati Unt]], Estonian director (d. 2005)
*[[1945]] &ndash; [[Peter Duncan (Australian politician)|Peter Duncan]], Australian politician
*  1945   &ndash; [[Jacky Ickx]], Belgian race car driver
*  1945   &ndash; [[Martin Schanche]], Norwegian race car driver
*[[1946]] &ndash; [[Grady Allen]], American football player (d. 2012)
*  1946   &ndash; [[Carl B. Hamilton]], Swedish economist and politician
*  1946   &ndash; [[Susannah McCorkle]], American singer (d. 2001)
*  1946   &ndash; [[Roberto Rivelino]], Brazilian footballer
*  1946   &ndash; [[Shelby Steele]], American author and director
*  1946   &ndash; [[Alain Voss]], Brazilian-French illustrator (d. 2011)
*[[1947]] &ndash; [[Jon Corzine]], American politician, 54th [[Governor of New Jersey]]
*  1947   &ndash; [[Leonard Thompson (golfer)|Leonard Thompson]], American golfer
*[[1948]] &ndash; [[Devlet Bahçeli]], Turkish politician, 57th [[Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey]]
*  1948   &ndash; [[Pavel Grachev]], Russian general (d. 2012)
*  1948   &ndash; [[Ian Lister]], Scottish footballer (d. 2013)
*  1948   &ndash; [[Joe Petagno]], American illustrator
*  1948   &ndash; [[Ampon Tangnoppakul]], Thai criminal (d. 2012)
*  1948   &ndash; [[Ismael Zambada García]], Mexican drug lord
*[[1949]] &ndash; [[Max Azria]], Tunisian-French fashion designer
*  1949   &ndash; [[Olivia Goldsmith]], American author (d. 2004)
*  1949   &ndash; [[Borys Tarasyuk]], Ukrainian politician
*  1949   &ndash; [[Paula Tsui]], Hong Kong singer
*[[1950]] &ndash; [[Wayne Bennett (rugby league)|Wayne Bennett]], Australian rugby player and coach
*  1950   &ndash; [[Morgan Fisher]], English keyboard player and songwriter ([[Mott the Hoople]] and [[Morgan (band)|Morgan]])
*  1950   &ndash; [[Deepa Mehta]], Indian-Canadian director and screenwriter
*  1950   &ndash; [[James Richardson (poet)|James Richardson]], American poet
*[[1951]] &ndash; [[Prospero Gallinari]], Italian terrorist (d. 2013)
*  1951   &ndash; [[Ashfaq Hussain]], Pakistani-Canadian poet and journalist
*  1951   &ndash; [[Nana Patekar]], Indian actor
*  1951   &ndash; [[Hans-Joachim Stuck]], German race car driver
*[[1952]] &ndash; [[Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani]], Qatari ruler, 7th [[List of emirs of Qatar|Emir of Qatar]]
*  1952   &ndash; [[Stephanie Faracy]], American actress
*  1952   &ndash; [[Shaji N. Karun]], Indian director and cinematographer
*  1952   &ndash; [[Rosario Marchese]], Italian-Canadian politician
*[[1953]] &ndash; [[Alpha Blondy]], Ivorian-American singer-songwriter
*  1953   &ndash; [[Greg Carmichael]], English guitarist ([[Acoustic Alchemy]])
*  1953   &ndash; [[Gary Johnson]], American politician
*  1953   &ndash; [[Lynn Jones]], American baseball player
*[[1954]] &ndash; [[Richard Edson]], American drummer and actor ([[Sonic Youth]] and [[Konk (band)|Konk]])
*  1954   &ndash; [[Bob Menendez]], American politician
*  1954   &ndash; [[Dennis O'Driscoll]], Irish poet (d. 2012)
*  1954   &ndash; [[Yannis Papathanasiou]], Greek politician
*[[1955]] &ndash; [[Mary Beard (classicist)|Mary Beard]], English classicist
*  1955   &ndash; [[LaMarr Hoyt]], American baseball player
*  1955   &ndash; [[Gennady Lyachin]], Russian captain (d. 2000)
*  1955   &ndash; [[Georgina von Etzdorf]], Peruvian-English textile designer
*[[1956]] &ndash; [[Sergei Avdeyev]], Russian astronaut
*  1956   &ndash; [[Mark R. Hughes]], American businessman, founded [[Herbalife]] (d. 2000)
*  1956   &ndash; [[Christine Lagarde]], French lawyer and politician
*  1956   &ndash; [[Sheila McCarthy]], Canadian actress and singer
*  1956   &ndash; [[Mike Mitchell (basketball, born 1956)|Mike Mitchell]], American basketball player (d. 2011)
*  1956   &ndash; [[Ziad Rahbani]], Lebanese pianist and composer
*  1956   &ndash; [[Kōji Yakusho]], Japanese actor
*[[1957]] &ndash; [[Urmas Arumäe]], Estonian lawyer
*  1957   &ndash; [[Mark Hurd]], American businessman
*  1957   &ndash; [[Ewa Kasprzyk (actress)|Ewa Kasprzyk]], Polish actress
*  1957   &ndash; [[Evangelos Venizelos]], Greek lawyer and politician, [[Deputy Prime Minister of Greece]]
*[[1958]] &ndash; [[Grandmaster Flash]], Barbadian rapper and DJ ([[Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five]])
*  1958   &ndash; [[Dave Silk]], American ice hockey player
*[[1959]] &ndash; [[Andy Andrews (tennis)|Andy Andrews]], American tennis player
*  1959   &ndash; [[Azali Assoumani]], Comorian politician, [[List of heads of state of Comoros|President of the Comoros]]
*  1959   &ndash; [[Panagiotis Giannakis]], Greek basketball player and coach
*  1959   &ndash; [[Abdul Ahad Mohmand]], Afghan pilot and astronaut
*  1959   &ndash; [[Michel Onfray]], French philosopher
*  1959   &ndash; [[Lysa Thatcher]], American porn actress
*[[1960]] &ndash; [[Rayo de Jalisco, Jr.]], Mexican wrestler
*  1960   &ndash; [[Michael Seibert (figure skater)|Michael Seibert]], American ice dancer
*  1960   &ndash; [[Toomas Vitsut]], Estonian businessman and politician
*  1960   &ndash; [[Danny Wilson (footballer, born 1960)|Danny Wilson]], English footballer and manager
*[[1961]] &ndash; [[Sergei Babayan]], Armenian-American pianist
*  1961   &ndash; [[Sam Backo]], Australian rugby player
*  1961   &ndash; [[Sam Palahnuk]], American video game designer
*  1961   &ndash; [[Fiona Phillips]], English journalist
*[[1962]] &ndash; [[Anton Muscatelli]], Italian conomist
*[[1963]] &ndash; [[Camila Batmanghelidjh]], British businesswoman
*  1963   &ndash; [[Alberigo Evani]], Italian footballer
*  1963   &ndash; [[Mukesh Gadhvi]], Indian politician (d. 2013)
*  1963   &ndash; [[Jean-Marc Gounon]], French race car driver
*  1963   &ndash; [[Linda Henry]], English actress
*  1963   &ndash; [[Lina Kačiušytė]], Lithuanian swimmer
*  1963   &ndash; [[Dražen Ladić]], Croatian footballer
*[[1964]] &ndash; [[Juliana Donald]], American actress
*  1964   &ndash; [[Dedee Pfeiffer]], American actress
*[[1965]] &ndash; [[John Sullivan (Oklahoma)|John Sullivan]], American politician
*  1965   &ndash; [[Andrew Valmon]], American runner
*[[1966]] &ndash; [[Anna Burke]], Australian politician, 28th [[Speaker of the Australian House of Representatives]]
*  1966   &ndash; [[Ivica Dačić]], Serbian politician, 95th [[Prime Minister of Serbia]]
*[[1967]] &ndash; [[Juanma Bajo Ulloa]], Spanish director
*  1967   &ndash; [[Tim Dog]], American rapper ([[Ultramagnetic MCs]])
*  1967   &ndash; [[Vasilis Lipiridis]], Greek basketball player
*  1967   &ndash; [[Sharon Small]], Scottish actress
*  1967   &ndash; [[Gorsha Sur]], Russian ice dancer
*  1967   &ndash; [[Derrick Thomas]], American football player (d. 2000)
*  1967   &ndash; [[Spencer Tunick]], American photographer
*[[1968]] &ndash; [[Felix Chong]], Hong Kong screenwriter
*  1968   &ndash; [[Miki Higashino]], Japanese composer
*  1968   &ndash; [[Sophie Okonedo]], British actress
*  1968   &ndash; [[Joey Stefano]], American porn actor (d. 1994)
*  1968   &ndash; [[Davor Šuker]], Croatian footballer
*[[1969]] &ndash; [[Morris Chestnut]], American actor
*  1969   &ndash; [[Nicolle Dickson]], Australian actress
*  1969   &ndash; [[Melissa DiMarco]], Canadian actress and producer
*  1969   &ndash; [[Paul Lawrie]], Scottish golfer
*  1969   &ndash; [[Christi Paul]], American journalist
*  1969   &ndash; [[Verne Troyer]], American actor and stuntman
*[[1970]] &ndash; [[Sergei Kiriakov]], Russian footballer
*  1970   &ndash; [[Kimberly Page]], American wrestling manager and actress
*[[1971]] &ndash; [[Sammie Henson]], American wrestler
*  1971   &ndash; [[Bobby Holík]], Czech ice hockey player
*  1971   &ndash; [[Rodney Leinhardt]], American wrestler
*  1971   &ndash; [[Phoebus (songwriter)|Phoebus]], Greek songwriter
*  1971   &ndash; [[Juan Carlos Plata]], Guatemalan footballer
*  1971   &ndash; [[Chris Potter (jazz saxophonist)|Chris Potter]], American saxophonist and composer
*  1971   &ndash; [[Jyotiraditya Scindia]], Indian politician
*[[1972]] &ndash; [[Garrett K. Gomez]], American jockey
*  1972   &ndash; [[Yermakhan Ibraimov]], Kazakh boxer
*  1972   &ndash; [[Barron Miles]], American-Canadian football player
*  1972   &ndash; [[Lilian Thuram]], French footballer
*[[1973]] &ndash; [[Shelda Bede]], Brazilian volleyball player
*  1973   &ndash; [[Li Fang (tennis)|Li Fang]], Chinese tennis player
*  1973   &ndash; [[Danny Lloyd]], American actor
*  1973   &ndash; [[Anwar Mansoor Mangrio]], Pakistani poet
*  1973   &ndash; [[Magnus Sahlgren]], Swedish guitarist ([[Lake of Tears]], [[Dismember (band)|Dismember]], and [[Tiamat (band)|Tiamat]])
*  1973   &ndash; [[Bryan Thao Worra]], Laotian-American author, poet, and playwright
*[[1974]] &ndash; [[Christian Paradis]], Canadian politician
*  1974   &ndash; [[Hamilton Ricard]], Colombian footballer
*  1974   &ndash; [[Giorgos Theodotou]], Cypriot footballer
*[[1975]] &ndash; [[Mohamed Albuflasa]], Bahraini poet
*  1975   &ndash; [[Chris Anstey]], Australian basketball player
*  1975   &ndash; [[Sonali Bendre]], Indian model and actress
*  1975   &ndash; [[Joe Cannon (soccer)|Joe Cannon]], American soccer player
*  1975   &ndash; [[Becky Kellar-Duke]], Canadian ice hockey player
*  1975   &ndash; [[Eiichiro Oda]], Japanese illustrator
*  1975   &ndash; [[Bengt Sæternes]], Norwegian footballer
*  1975   &ndash; [[Fernando Tatís]], Dominican baseball player
*[[1977]] &ndash; [[Leoš Friedl]], Czech tennis player
*  1977   &ndash; [[María de la Paz Hernández]], Argentinian field hockey player
*  1977   &ndash; [[Bobby Roode]], Canadian wrestler
*  1977   &ndash; [[Hasan Salihamidžić]], Bosnian footballer
*  1977   &ndash; [[Andrei Stoliarov]], Russian tennis player
*  1977   &ndash; [[Jerry Yan]], Taiwanese actor and singer ([[F4 (band)|F4]])
*[[1978]] &ndash; [[Vidya Balan]], Indian model and actress
*  1978   &ndash; [[Nina Bott]], German actress
*  1978   &ndash; [[Philip Mulryne]], Irish footballer
*[[1979]] &ndash; [[Brody Dalle]], Australian-American singer-songwriter and guitarist ([[The Distillers]] [[Spinnerette]])
*  1979   &ndash; [[Koichi Domoto]], Japanese singer-songwriter and actor ([[KinKi Kids]])
*  1979   &ndash; [[Fadi El Khatib]], Lebanese basketball player
*  1979   &ndash; [[Kathryn Thomas]], Irish television presenter
*[[1980]] &ndash; [[Lazaros Agadakos]], Greek basketball player
*  1980   &ndash; [[Richie Faulkner]], British guitarist ([[Judas Priest]])
*  1980   &ndash; [[Karina Jacobsgaard]], Danish tennis player
*  1980   &ndash; [[Elin Nordegren]], Swedish-American model
*  1980   &ndash; [[Daniil Sapljoshin]], Estonian kickboxer
*[[1981]] &ndash; [[Jonas Armstrong]], Irish-English actor
*  1981   &ndash; [[Zsolt Baumgartner]], Hungarian race car driver
*  1981   &ndash; [[Abdülkadir Koçak]], Turkish boxer
*  1981   &ndash; [[Mladen Petrić]], Croatian footballer
*  1981   &ndash; [[Eden Riegel]], American actress
*  1981   &ndash; [[Jacqui Maxwell]], Australian actress
*[[1982]] &ndash; [[Egidio Arévalo Ríos]], Uruguayan footballer
*  1982   &ndash; [[David Nalbandian]], Argentinian tennis player
*  1982   &ndash; [[Luke Rodgers]], English footballer
*[[1983]] &ndash; [[Calum Davenport]], English footballer
*  1983   &ndash; [[Emi Kobayashi]], Japanese model
*  1983   &ndash; [[Thomas Morrison (actor)|Thomas Morrison]], English actor
*  1983   &ndash; [[Park Sung-Hyun]], South Korean archer
*[[1984]] &ndash; [[Cheung Kin Fung]], Hong Kong footballer
*  1984   &ndash; [[Christian Eigler]], German footballer
*  1984   &ndash; [[Mohammed Ghaddar]], Lebanese footballer
*  1984   &ndash; [[Paolo Guerrero]], Peruvian footballer
*  1984   &ndash; [[Alok Kapali]], Bangladeshi cricketer
*  1984   &ndash; [[Stefano Pastrello]], Italian footballer
*  1984   &ndash; [[Michael Witt]], Australian rugby player
*[[1985]] &ndash; [[Jeff Carter]], Canadian ice hockey player
*  1985   &ndash; [[Steven Davis]], Irish footballer
*  1985   &ndash; [[Eyjólfur Héðinsson]], Icelandic footballer and model
*  1985   &ndash; [[Tiago Splitter]], Brazilian basketball player
*[[1986]] &ndash; [[Glen Davis (basketball)|Glen Davis]], American basketball player
*  1986   &ndash; [[Lee Sungmin]], South Korean singer, dancer, and actor ([[Super Junior]])
*  1986   &ndash; [[Colin Morgan]], Northern Irish actor
*[[1987]] &ndash; [[Gilbert Brulé]], Canadian ice hockey player
*  1987   &ndash; [[Gia Coppola]], American film director
*  1987   &ndash; [[Estefanía Craciún]], Uruguayan tennis player
*  1987   &ndash; [[Meryl Davis]], American ice dancer
*  1987   &ndash; [[Devin Setoguchi]], Canadian ice hockey player
*  1987   &ndash; [[Myla Sinanaj]], Albanian-American model and actress
*[[1988]] &ndash; [[Nelufar Hedayat]], Afghan-English journalist
*  1988   &ndash; [[Ghazala Javed]], Pakistani singer (d. 2012)
*  1988   &ndash; [[Grzegorz Panfil]], Polish tennis player
*[[1990]] &ndash; [[Safaa Rashed]], Iraqi weightlifter
*[[1992]] &ndash; [[Daniel Kofi Agyei]], Ghanaian footballer
*  1992   &ndash; [[René Binder]], Austrian race car driver
*  1992   &ndash; [[Ali Ferydoon]], Irani footballer
*  1992   &ndash; [[He Kexin]], Chinese gymnast
*  1992   &ndash; [[Jack Wilshere]], English footballer
*[[1993]] &ndash; [[Michael Olaitan]], Nigerian footballer

==Deaths==
* [[379]] &ndash; [[Basil of Caesarea]], Greek bishop (b. 329)
* [[510]] &ndash; [[Eugendus]], French abbot (b. 449)
* [[680]] &ndash; [[Javanshir]], king of [[Caucasian Albania]] (b. 616)
* [[898]] &ndash; [[Odo of France]] (b. 860)
* [[962]] &ndash; [[Baldwin III, Count of Flanders]] (b. 940)
*[[1204]] &ndash; [[Haakon III of Norway]] (b. 1170)
*[[1387]] &ndash; [[Charles II of Navarre]] (b. 1332)
*[[1515]] &ndash; [[Louis XII of France]] (b. 1462)
*[[1559]] &ndash; [[Christian III of Denmark]] (b. 1503)
*[[1560]] &ndash; [[Joachim du Bellay]], French poet (b. 1522)
*[[1617]] &ndash; [[Hendrik Goltzius]], Dutch painter (b. 1558)
*[[1697]] &ndash; [[Filippo Baldinucci]], Florentine historian and author (b. 1624)
*[[1716]] &ndash; [[William Wycherley]], English playwright (b. 1640)
*[[1748]] &ndash; [[Johann Bernoulli]], Swiss mathematician (b. 1667)
*[[1759]] &ndash; [[Jacques-Joachim Trotti, marquis de La Chétardie]], French diplomat (b. 1705)
*[[1766]] &ndash; [[James Francis Edward Stuart]], English son of [[James II of England]] (b. 1688)
*[[1782]] &ndash; [[Johann Christian Bach]], German composer (b. 1735)
*[[1789]] &ndash; [[Fletcher Norton, 1st Baron Grantley]], English politician (b. 1716)
*[[1793]] &ndash; [[Francesco Guardi]], Venetian painter (b. 1712)
*[[1796]] &ndash; [[Alexandre-Théophile Vandermonde]], French mathematician (b. 1735)
*[[1800]] &ndash; [[Louis-Jean-Marie Daubenton]], French naturalist (b. 1716)
*[[1817]] &ndash; [[Martin Heinrich Klaproth]], German chemist (b. 1743)
*[[1846]] &ndash; [[John Torrington]], English soldier and explorer (b. 1825)
*[[1853]] &ndash; [[Gregory Blaxland]], Australian farmer and explorer (b. 1778)
*[[1862]] &ndash; [[Mikhail Ostrogradsky]], Russian physicist (b. 1801)
*[[1881]] &ndash; [[Louis Auguste Blanqui]], French activist (b. 1805)
*[[1892]] &ndash; [[Roswell B. Mason]], American politician, 25th [[Mayor of Chicago]] (b. 1805)
*[[1894]] &ndash; [[Heinrich Hertz]], German physicist (b. 1857)
*[[1896]] &ndash; [[Alfred Ely Beach]], American publisher and lawyer, created the [[Beach Pneumatic Transit]] (b. 1826)
*[[1906]] &ndash; [[Hugh Nelson (Australian politician)|Hugh Nelson]], Scottish-Australian politician, 11th [[Premier of Queensland]] (b. 1835)
*[[1918]] &ndash; [[William Wilfred Campbell]], Canadian poet (b. 1858)
*[[1919]] &ndash; [[Mikhail Drozdovsky]], Russian general (b. 1881)
*[[1921]] &ndash; [[Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg]], German politician, 5th [[Chancellor of Germany]] (b. 1856)
*[[1922]] &ndash; [[István Kühár]], Slovene priest and politician (b. 1887)
*[[1931]] &ndash; [[Martinus Beijerinck]], Dutch microbiologist and botanist (b. 1851)
*[[1940]] &ndash; [[Panuganti Lakshminarasimha Rao]], Indian author (b. 1865)
*[[1941]] &ndash; [[József Konkolics]], Hungarian-Slovene author (d. 1861)
*[[1942]] &ndash; [[Otto Liiv]], Estonian historian and archivist (b. 1905)
*[[1944]] &ndash; [[Edwin Lutyens]], English architect, designed the [[Castle Drogo]] and [[Thiepval Memorial]] (b. 1869)
*  1944   &ndash; [[Charles Turner (cricketer)|Charles Turner]], Australian cricketer (b. 1862)
*[[1953]] &ndash; [[Hank Williams]], American singer-songwriter and guitarist ([[Drifting Cowboys]]) (b. 1923)
*[[1954]] &ndash; [[Leonard Bacon (poet)|Leonard Bacon]], American poet (b. 1887)
*  1954   &ndash; [[Duff Cooper]], English politician and diplomat, [[Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster]] (b. 1890)
*[[1955]] &ndash; [[Arthur C. Parker]], American archaeologist and historian (b. 1881)
*[[1955]] &ndash; [[Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar]], Indian chemist (b. 1894)
*[[1957]] &ndash; [[Seán South]], Irish militant (b. 1928)
*[[1958]] &ndash; [[Edward Weston]], American photographer (b. 1886)
*[[1960]] &ndash; [[Margaret Sullavan]], American actress and screenwriter (b. 1909)
*[[1964]] &ndash; [[Bechara El Khoury]], Lebanese politician, 6th [[President of Lebanon]] (b. 1890)
*[[1965]] &ndash; [[Emma Asson]], Estonian politician (b. 1889)
*  1966   &ndash; [[Vincent Auriol]], French politician, 16th [[President of the French Republic]] (b. 1884)
*[[1968]] &ndash; [[Malcolm Wheeler-Nicholson]], American publisher, founded [[DC Comics]] (b. 1890)
*[[1969]] &ndash; [[Bruno Söderström]], Swedish pole vaulter (b. 1888)
*[[1971]] &ndash; [[Amphilochius of Pochayiv]], Ukrainian saint (b. 1894)
*[[1972]] &ndash; [[Maurice Chevalier]], French actor (b. 1888)
*[[1973]] &ndash; [[Sergei Kourdakov]], Soviet navy officer and [[KGB]] agent (b. 1951)
*[[1978]] &ndash; [[Don Freeman]], American author and illustrator (b. 1908)
*[[1980]] &ndash; [[Pietro Nenni]], Italian politician (b. 1891)
*[[1981]] &ndash; [[Hephzibah Menuhin]], American-Australian pianist (b. 1920)
*[[1982]] &ndash; [[Victor Buono]], American actor (b. 1938)
*[[1984]] &ndash; [[Alexis Korner]], French-English singer-songwriter and guitarist ([[Blues Incorporated]] and [[Collective Consciousness Society]]) (b. 1928)
*[[1985]] &ndash; [[Sigerson Clifford]], Irish poet, playwright, and civil servant (b. 1913)
*  1985   &ndash; [[Kamatari Fujiwara]], Japanese actor (b. 1905)
*[[1986]] &ndash; [[Alfredo Binda]], Italian cyclist (b. 1902)
*[[1987]] &ndash; [[Lloyd Haynes]], American actor (b. 1934)
*  1987   &ndash; [[Jack Latham]],  American actor, and news anchor (b. 1914)
*[[1989]] &ndash; [[Aleka Stratigou]], Greek actress (b. 1926)
*[[1992]] &ndash; [[Grace Hopper]], American computer scientist and navy officer, co-developed [[COBOL]] (b. 1906)
*[[1994]] &ndash; [[Arthur Porritt, Baron Porritt]], New Zealand physician and politician, 11th [[Governor-General of New Zealand]] (b. 1900)
*  1994   &ndash; [[Cesar Romero]], American actor (b. 1907)
*  1994   &ndash; [[Edward Arthur Thompson]], Irish historian (b. 1914)
*[[1995]] &ndash; [[Fred West]], English serial killer (b. 1941)
*[[1995]] &ndash; [[Eugene Wigner]], Hungarian-American physicist and mathematician, [[Nobel Prize in Physics|Nobel Prize]] laureate (b. 1902)
*[[1996]] &ndash; [[Arleigh Burke]], American admiral (b. 1901)
*  1996   &ndash; [[Arthur Rudolph]], German engineer (b. 1906)
*[[1997]] &ndash; [[Ivan Graziani]], Italian singer-songwriter and guitarist (b. 1945)
*[[1997]] &ndash; [[Townes Van Zandt]], American singer-songwriter (b. 1944)
*[[1998]] &ndash; [[Helen Wills]], American tennis player (b. 1905)
*[[2000]] &ndash; [[Colin Vaughan]], Australian journalist (b. 1931)
*[[2001]] &ndash; [[Ray Walston]], American actor (b. 1914)
*[[2002]] &ndash; [[Julia Phillips]], American film producer and author (b. 1944)
*[[2003]] &ndash; [[Joe Foss]], American pilot, politician, and broadcaster, 20th [[Governor of South Dakota]] (b. 1915)
*  2003   &ndash; [[Dumitru Tinu]], Romanian journalist (b. 1940)
*  2003   &ndash; [[Royce D. Applegate]], American actor and screenwriter (b. 1939)
*[[2005]] &ndash; [[Shirley Chisholm]], American educator, politician, and author (b. 1924)
*  2005   &ndash; [[Eugene J. Martin]], American painter (b. 1938)
*[[2006]] &ndash; [[Dawn Lake]], Australian comedian, actress, and singer (b. 1927)
*  2006   &ndash; [[Harry Magdoff]], American journalist (b. 1913)
*  2006   &ndash; [[Hugh McLaughlin (publisher)|Hugh McLaughlin]], Irish publisher and inventor, invented the [[Water hog]] (b. 1918)
*[[2007]] &ndash; [[Leon Davidson]], American engineer and scientist (b. 1922)
*  2007   &ndash; [[Roland Levinsky]], South African scientist (b. 1943)
*  2007   &ndash; [[Darrent Williams]], American football player (b. 1982)
*[[2008]] &ndash; [[Salvatore Bonanno]], American son of [[Joseph Bonanno]] (b. 1932)
*  2008   &ndash; [[Peter Caffrey]], Irish actor (b. 1949)
*  2008   &ndash; [[Pratap Chandra Chunder]], Indian politician (b. 1919)
*  2008   &ndash; [[Harold Corsini]], American photographer (b. 1919)
*[[2009]] &ndash; [[Aarne Arvonen]], Finnish super-centenarian (b. 1897)
*  2009   &ndash; [[Claiborne Pell]], American politician (b. 1918)
*  2009   &ndash; [[Nizar Rayan]], Palestinian [[Hamas]] leader (b. 1962)
*  2009   &ndash; [[Sheikh Ahmed Salim Swedan]] Kenyan terrorist (b. 1960)
*  2009   &ndash; [[Ron Asheton]] American guitarist and songwriter ([[The Stooges]], [[The New Order (band)|The New Order]], [[Destroy All Monsters (band)|Destroy All Monsters]] and [[New Race]]) (b. 1948)
*[[2010]] &ndash; [[Lhasa de Sela]], American-Mexican singer-songwriter (b. 1972)
*[[2011]] &ndash; [[Marin Constantin]], Romanian composer and conductor (b. 1925)
*  2011   &ndash; [[Reynaldo Dagsa]], Filipino politician
*  2011   &ndash; [[Flemming Jørgensen]], Danish singer-songwriter, bass player, and actor ([[Bamses Venner]]) (b. 1947)
*[[2012]] &ndash; [[Gary Ablett (English footballer)|Gary Ablett]], English footballer and manager (b. 1965)
*  2012   &ndash; [[Bob Anderson (fencer)|Bob Anderson]], English fencer, stuntman, and choreographer (b. 1922)
*  2012   &ndash; [[Kiro Gligorov]], Bulgarian-Macedonian politician, 1st [[President of the Republic of Macedonia]] (b. 1917)
*  2012   &ndash; [[Alessandro Liberati]], Italian physician and epidemiologist (b. 1954)
*  2012   &ndash; [[Nay Win Maung]], Burmese physician, businessman, and activist (b. 1962)
*  2012   &ndash; [[Fred Milano]], American singer ([[The Belmonts]] and [[Dion and the Belmonts]]) (b. 1939)
*  2012   &ndash; [[Tommy Mont]], American football player and coach (b. 1922)
*  2012   &ndash; [[Carlos Soria]], Argentinian lawyer and politician (b. 1948)
*  2012   &ndash; [[Yafa Yarkoni]], Israeli singer and actress (b. 1925)
*[[2013]] &ndash; [[Yuri Alexandrov (boxer)|Yuri Alexandrov]], Russian boxer (b. 1963)
*  2013   &ndash; [[Lory Blanchard]], New Zealand rugby player and coach (b. 1924)
*  2013   &ndash; [[Michael Patrick Cronan]], American graphic designer (b. 1951)
*  2013   &ndash; [[Ross Davis (baseball)|Ross Davis]], American baseball player (b. 1918)
*  2013   &ndash; [[Lloyd Hartman Elliott]], American academic (b. 1918)
*  2013   &ndash; [[Allan Hancox]], English-Kenyan judge, [[Chief Justice of Kenya]] (b. 1932)
*  2013   &ndash; [[Roz Howard]], American race car driver (b. 1922)
*  2013   &ndash; [[Christopher Martin-Jenkins]], English journalist (b. 1945)
*  2013   &ndash; [[Patti Page]], American singer and actress (b. 1927)
*  2013   &ndash; [[Barbara Werle]], American actress and singer (b. 1928)
*[[2014]] &ndash; [[Peter Austin]], English brewer, founded [[Ringwood Brewery]] (b. 1921)
*  2014   &ndash; [[Pete DeCoursey]], American journalist (b. 1961)
*  2014   &ndash; [[Michael Glennon]], Australian priest (b. 1944)
*  2014   &ndash; [[Higashifushimi Kunihide]], Japanese monk and educator (b. 1910)
*  2014   &ndash; [[Billy McColl (actor)|Billy McColl]], Scottish-English actor (b. 1951)
*  2014   &ndash; [[William Mgimwa]], Tanzanian banker and politician, 13th [[Minister of Finance (Tanzania)|Tanzanian Minister of Finance]] (b. 1950)
*  2014   &ndash; [[Juanita Moore]], American actress (b. 1914)
*  2014   &ndash; [[Josep Seguer]], Spanish footballer and manager (b. 1923)
*  2014   &ndash; [[Tabby Thomas]], American singer, pianist, and guitarist (b. 1929)
<!-- Do not add people without Wikipedia articles to this list
Do not trust "this year in history" websites for accurate date information
Do not link multiple occurrences of the same year, just link the first occurrence.
No red links, please.
-->

==Holidays and observances==
*Christian [[Calendar of saints|Feast Day]]:
**[[Basil of Caesarea|Basil the Great]] ([[Eastern Orthodox Church]])
**[[Circumcision of Jesus|Feast of the Circumcision of Christ]] 
**[[Feast of the Holy Name of Jesus]] ([[Lutheranism|Lutheran Church]])
**[[Fulgentius of Ruspe]]
**[[Solemnity of Mary, Mother of God]], the [[Octave (liturgical)|Octave]] Day of [[Christmas]], considered a [[holy day of obligation]] in some countries ([[Catholic Church]])
**[[Saint Telemachus|Telemachus]]
**[[World Day of Peace]] (Catholic Church)
**[[January 1 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)]]
*[[Constitution Day]] ([[Italy]])
*[[Dissolution of Czechoslovakia]] related observances:
**[[Public holidays in Slovakia|Day of the Establishment of the Slovak Republic]] ([[Slovakia]])
**[[Public holidays in the Czech Republic|Restoration Day of the Independent Czech State]] ([[Czech Republic]])
*Earliest day on which [[Handsel Monday]] can fall, while [[January 7]] is the latest; celebrated on the first Monday of the year ([[Scotland]])
*[[Public holidays in Taiwan|Founding Day]] ([[Taiwan]])
*[[Global Family Day]] ([[International observance|International]])
*[[List of national independence days|Independence Day]], celebrates the independence of [[Brunei]] from [[United Kingdom]] in 1984
*Independence Day, celebrates the independence of [[Haiti]] from [[France]] in 1804
*Independence Day, celebrates the independence of [[Sudan]] from [[United Kingdom]] in 1956
*[[Arbor Day|National Tree Planting Day]] ([[Tanzania]])
*[[New Year's Day]] (many countries around the world using the [[Gregorian calendar]])
*[[Public Domain Day]]
*The eighth [[Twelve Days of Christmas|day of Christmas]] ([[Western Christianity]])
*The last day of [[Kwanzaa]] ([[United States]])
*The presidents of [[Brazil]] and [[Switzerland]] take possession.
*[[Public holidays in Cuba|Triumph of the Revolution]] ([[Cuba]])

==External links==
{{commons}}
* [http://news.bbc.co.uk/onthisday/hi/dates/stories/january/1 BBC: On This Day]
* {{NYT On this day|month=01|day=01}}
* [http://www1.sympatico.ca/cgi-bin/on_this_day?mth=Jan&day=01 On This Day in Canada]
*[http://todayinbritishhistory.com/category/what-happened-on/jan-1/ Today In British History]
{{months}}


{{DEFAULTSORT:January 01}}
[[Category:Days of the year]]
[[Category:January]]